---
title: Crash Logging
permalink: /Crash_Logging/
---

rAthena can crash in various places and due to various reasons. However, all of them ultimately involve some sort of problem in the source code. There's not much you can do about the crashed server, but what you *can* do is gather information about the crash. The info can then be provided to the [developers](/developers "wikilink") in a bugreport or by private communication.

Information types
-----------------

The information you will be providing can have various forms, with varying degrees of usefulness. Here's a list, ordered from worst to best option:

1.  **nothing** - Ignore the issue and restart the server, waiting for someone else to fix the problem.
2.  **help plz!** - Inform the developers or other users that there's a problem, but not give any more details.
3.  **unresolved stack trace** - Provide a stack trace generated by say, Cygwin, that only has memory addresses.
4.  **readable stack trace** - Provide a stack trace that has function names.
5.  **backtrace with variables** - Provide a stack trace with function names and local variable names+values.
6.  **core dump / memory dump** - Provide a full memory dump of the crashed process, along with the corresponding binary and source code.

Collection methods
------------------

There's lots of software that will let you do automatic, semi-automatic or manual crash information collection.

### Manual

//TODO: [GDB](/GDB "wikilink"), visual studio, windbg hooking, task manager right-click make dump

### Automatic

//TODO: automatic system response, rA plugins and scripts, gdb analysis, UserDump, DebugDiag, ProcDump
Some info at [How to use Coredump/Stackdump](http://www.eathena.ws/board/index.php?showtopic=91817).

[Category:Debugging](/Category:Debugging "wikilink")